# Folds
* Like `map`, a `fold` is a higher order function that takes a function and a
	list and uses the function to combine the elements of the list. For example
```
concat :: [[a]] -> [a]
concat [] = []
concat (x : xs) = x ++ concat xs
```
* Prelude defines four fold functions: `foldr`, `foldl`, `foldr1` and `foldl1`
## `foldr`
* `foldr` folds up a list from right to left. Syntax:
```
foldr <binary operator> <initial accumulator> <list>
```
where `<binary operator>` should be able to operate on `<accumulator>`
* `foldr` simply replaces `:` from the `List` definition with the function while
	replacing the empty list at then end with `acc`
```
foldr f acc (a:b:c:[]) = f a (f b (f c acc)) -- note the right nesting
```
* Mnemonic - rightmost operator accumulator
## `foldl`
* `foldl` folds up a list from left to right. Syntax:
```
foldl <binary operator> <initial accumulator> <list>
```
where `<binary operator>` should be able to operate on `<accumulator>`
* `foldr` simply replaces `:` from the `List` definition with the function while
	replacing the empty list at then end with `acc`
```
foldl f acc (a:b:c:[]) = f (f (f acc a) b) c
```
* `foldl` is tail recursive - i.e. it recurses immediately but Haskell is also
	lazy, so recursions are not evaluated unless they will be needed. However,
	Haskell also has `foldl'` (fold l tick) which is strict.
* Mnemonic - accumulator operator leftmost
* Rule of thumb - use `foldr` if the list might be infinite. Use `foldl'` only
  when it is known that the list is finite.
## `foldr1`
* Works like `foldr` but instead of explicit accumulator, uses last element of
	list.
## `foldl1`
* Works like `foldl` but instead of explicit accumulator, uses first element of
	list.
# Lambda `\`
* Syntax: `\ <arg-list> -> <body>`

# Scans
* A scan is a cross between a `fold_` and `map`. It accumulates like a fold, but
	instead of returning only a final value it returns a list of all the
	intermediate values.
* `scanl` accumulates the list from the left, and the second argument becomes
	the first item in the resulting list
```
scanl :: (a -> b -> a) -> a -> [b] -> [a]
scanl (+) 0 [1, 2, 3] = [0, 1, 3, 6]
```
* `scanl1` does the same using the first item of the list as a zero parameter.
* `scanr` accumulates the list from the right
```
scanr :: (a -> b -> b) -> b -> [a] -> [b]
scanr (+) 0 [1, 2, 3] = [6, 5, 3, 0]
```
* `scanr1` does the same using the first item of the list as a zero parameter.
```
scanr1 :: (a -> a -> a) -> [a] -> [a]
scanr1 (+) [1, 2, 3] = [6, 5, 3]
```
# Filters
* Generating a new list composed only of elements of the first list that meet a
	certain condition
```
filter :: (a -> Bool) -> [a] -> [a]
```
# List comprehension
* They are syntactic sugar for common list operations like filtering
```
<comprehension-name> <parameters> = [ <expression> | <condition1>, <condition2>, ... ]
```
* A list comprehension is a `map` followed by a `filter`
```
doubleOfFirstForEvenSeconds :: [(Int, Int)] -> [Int]
doubleOfFirstForEvenSeconds ps = [x | (x, y) <- ps, (\ n -> (n `mod` 2 == 0))]
allPairs :: [(Int, Int)]
allPairs = [(x, y) | x <- [1..4], y <- [5..8]]
somePairs = [(x, y) | x <- [1..4], y <- [5..8], x + y > 8]
```
