---
title : Music, Mind and Technology - Lecture 1 notes
author : Bharathi Ramana Joshi, 2019121006
---

- Music is an art form and cultural activity whose medium is sound organized in
    time
- science/art of ordering tones/sounds in succession, in combination, and in
    temporal relationships to produce a composition having unity and continuity
- an organized combination of sound and silent moments

# Questions on music

- What ?
    * What is music?
- Who ?
    * Who listens to music?
    * Who makes music?
- When ?
    * When do people listen to music?
- Why ?
    * Why do people listen to music?
- Where ?
    * Where is music made?
    * Where do people listen to music?
- How ?
    * How is music made?
    * How do people listen to music?

- Neurological disease amusia : music sounds random and noise-like
- Can you deduce information about a person based on music they listen to?

# Musical Complexity

- What determines complexity in music?
- Why is Bach complex?
- Trained musicians like more complex music?
    * Genre
    * Response
    * Listener (knowledge, literacy, preferences)
    * Situation & Context
- Why music : regulating emotions, social bonding, positive mood, relax
- Addiction and music?
    * Why do so many artists engage in substance abuse?
- Individual differences in music (age, personality, learning, rehabilitation)

# Music as data

- Music information retrieval
- Computational music analysis
- Physiological collection (heart rate), neuroimaging (fMRI)
- Big data

- Readings for today's lecture
- Original research
- ismir : point survey papers?
- Overlap with programming language theory?
