# Questions

- Knowing vs thinking something to be true
- Difference between knowledge and (universal) opinion/belief? Is there even a
  difference?
- Justification needed for knowing a claim?
- Do non-human entities (animals, god etc) have knowledge? Or is it inherently
  human-centric

# Knowledge and the knower

- Economy of knowledge: knowledge is a free flowing resource, stored in
  databases and libraries.
- Knowledge is dependent on someone to know (unlike, say a mountain)
- Knowledge != facts. Say a friend tosses a coin, then the outcome is either
  heads or tails - a fact. However, you *lack* the knowledge of the outcome
  (i.e. what it has actually landed on). It is knowledge's nature to be required
  to access: libraries, databases etc are not knowledge but merely paper with
  ink marks, electronic traces unless someone accesses them
- Many people can have same knowledge, but all knowledge *must* be known by
  someone
- Knowledge can be combined in productive ways by groups of people, Take the
  Linux kernel for example - no single individual knows every LOC, yet all the
  developers combined together, i.e. the *group* of developers, know how it
  works.
- Knowledge as a link : Person <-> Fact

# Spotting the difference

- Cynical Theory: knowledge as an attitude of the elite. Some knowledge is more
    valid than others, simply because of who possess it irrespective of its
    relation to reality?
- More power => more means to gain knowledge, more knowledge => more power
- Falls short at
    + Ability to question the powerful - history proves great scholars have also
      been wrong
    + Everyday knowledge

# Knowing vs thinking

- Factivity: knowing something to be true (I think I have green hair vs I know I
  have black hair). Link between truthfulness of a proposition and person
- Just because it is hard to spot the difference, doesn't mean there is no
  difference: 
- *Knowledge* links only with facts. *Belief* can link with falsities.
- Confidence is also essential to knowledge
- Just truthfulness and confidence aren't enough: father-daughter dilemma
- Thus, knowledge = truthfulness + confidence + _
- Assumption: objectivity of truth, otherwise lead into self-destructive
    theories like Protagoras'
