# Scepticism

## Can you be sure?

- Nothing? Do you even know this?

## The historical roots of scepticism

- Academic sceptics: argue for impossibility of knowledge, argues against stoic
  epistemology
- Pyrrhonian sceptics: argue for nothing
- Stoic epistemology: impressions (experience) vs judgements (acceptance/rejectance)
- Academic Sceptics argument: Impressions are always fallible, thus knowledge
  cannot be attained
- Core problem: criterion for accepting/rejecting knowledge? How to select this
  criteria itself?
- Pyrrhonian's strategy: whenever a decision must be made, provide supporting
  arguments to each possible decision, without ever reaching a conclusion. In
  other words, simply avoid taking any decisions at all and be at inner peace.

## Old challenges, fresh replies

- Moore's argument: "Here is one hand, and here is another". Shift the burden of
  proof to the sceptic.
- Russell's argument: All other things being equal, a simple explanation is
  favoured over a complex one rationally (Occam's razor?). Counter - knowledge
  calls for a higher standard than rational belief (Butcher-Maid-Murder example)
- Semantic Externalism: words get their meaning not from what individual
  speakers think of them, but from casual chains that connect us with the
  world around us. For example, people from the medieval ages thought of water
  as an element, but today's scientists describe it as H20. However, both a
  modern scientist and a medieval man both refer to the same liquid when the say
  water i.e. both have the same casual link.
- These casual links may be across multiple people. For instance Socrates is
  dead, yet whenever people talk about him everyone refers to the same
  Socrates
- Semantic Externalism allows people to communicate despite of conflict. For
  instance the Socratic problem can be avoided.
- Putnam's argument against the Matrix: our knowledge of the computer is from
  the simulation, you've never interacted with a computer outside the
  simulation, thus there cannot be an outside reality
- Scepticism is a good thing - second checking individual beliefs - taken too
  far
