# The Analysis of Knowledge

## Gettier's challenge

- Classical analysis of knowledge: justified true belief
    $S$ knows that $p$ is true iff
    1. $p$ is true
    2. $S$ believes that $p$
    3. $S$ is justified in believing that $p$
- Consider a detective X that comes to the conclusion that Z is guilty of a crime
  based on the testimonies of A, B and C. However, C is a lies in their
  testimony. But A and B are truthful and X is indeed guilty. The justified true
  belief model of knowledge fails here as X does have knowledge that Z is
  guilty, but does not know that C lied. X does not *essentially rely* on a
  false belief

## The causal theory of knowledge

- Gap between source of justification and truthfulness: say a student S cheats
  on n math test. However the evaluator E evaluating S's answers (source of
  justification) is unaware of this fact and thinks that S has indeed learnt
  math (truthfulness). Does E have the knowledge that S has learnt math?
- Goldman's casual theory of knowledge: experience based knowledge requires the
  knower to be casually connected to the fact. Continuing the previous example,
  if the evaluator invigilated for the test, he would be casually connected to
  the fact.
- Most educated adults know that Julius Caesar was assassinated, yet cannot
  justify. Does this mean they do not have that knowledge?
- $S$ knows that $p$ iff the fact $p$ is casually connected in an appropriate
  way with $S$'s believing $p$.
- Reliabilism: knowledge is true belief produced by a reliable (likely to be
  true) belief-producing mechanism. Criticism: how reliable is reliable enough?

## No way out?

- Recipe for counter examples: come up with a scenario where someone has a
  justified false belief, then add a twist to make the proposition is true

## Can knowing be analysed at all?

- Knowledge is not a well behaved concept
- Timothy Williamson's argument: knowledge is more fundamental than beliefs
