* Computer-based visualization systems provide visual representations of
    datasets designed to help people carry out tasks effectively - i.e. vis
    systems are appropriate for use when your goal is to augment human
    capabilities, rather than completely replace the human in the loop.
* Vis designers must take into account three kinds of resource limitations:
    of computers, of humans and of displays.
# Why have a human in the loop?
* Exploit extraordinary pattern analysis system of human visual system
# Why have a computer in the loop?
* Infeasible to draw by hand and evolution over time
# Why use an external representation?
* Overcome human limitations - offload internal cognition and memory usage
    (external memory).
    - Organize info by spatial location - accelerate search and recog
    - Group relevant info together
# Why depend on vision?
* Well characterized and suitable for transmitting information
* High bandwidth, parallel processing at subconscious level
* Sound ill suited - needs continuous transmission
* Other senses technological limitations
# Why show the data in detail?
* Anscombe's Quartet - illustrate problems of oversimplification
# Why use interactivity?
* Overcome lare enough datasets
# Why is vis idiom design space huge?
* **Idiom**: distinct approach to creating and manipulating visual
    representations
# Why focus on tasks?
* Reframing users' tasks from domain-specific form into abstract forms requires
    reconsidering similarities and differences between what people need across
    many real-world usage contexts.
# Why focus on effectiveness?
* Correctness, accuracy and truth play a central role in vis.
* **Any** depiction of data is an abstraction where choices are made about which
    aspects to emphasize.
# Why are most designs ineffective?
* Vast majority of possibilities in the design space are ineffective for
    specific usage context.
* In addressing design problems, it's more appropriate to **satisfy** than
    **optimize**.
* Consider multiple alternatives and then choose the best, rather than fixate on
    one without considering any alternatives.
# Why is validation difficult?
* There are so many questions one could as to see if a vis tool has met its
    goals.
# Why are there resource limitations?
* Inevitably used for larger datasets than designed for.
# Why analyze?
* **What** data user sees, **why** user intends to use vis tool and **how**
    visual encoding and interaction idioms are constructed in terms of design
    choices.
* **what-why-how** result in *data-task-idiom* answer, called an instance.
