---
title: 'Notes on the paper "Partial Evaluation of Computation Process"'
author: Bharathi Ramana Joshi
---

- Two ways describe the semantics of PL
    1. Describe a translator (compiler)
    2. Describe an interpreter
- A challenge in implementing a translator: what to do at translate time and
    what to do at compile time? This distinction can be ignored for
    interpreters.
- Automatically transform an interpreter to a compiler and its application to a
    compiler-compiler.
- Partial evaluation: "in a computation process pi with m + n variables
    c1, ..., cm, r1, ..., rn, evaluate the portions of pi which can be evaluated
    using only the values c1', ..., cm' assigned to variables c1, ..., cm,
    respectively, and constants contained in pi. The portions which cannot be
    evaluated unless the values of the remaining variables are given are left
    intact. Thus, pi is transformed into a computation process having n
    variables. When the computation process thus obtained is evaluated for
    values r1', ..., rn' assigned to variables r1, ..., rn, respectively, its
    result is equivalent to the result of the evaluation of it for the values
    c1', ..., cm', r1', ..., rn' given to variables c1, ..., cm, r1, ..., rn
    respectively." This transformation is denoted by the equation

    pi(c1', ..., cm', r1', ..., rn') = alpha(pi, c1', ..., cn')(r1', ..., rn')

- Interpreter itself is a computation process with variables. Classify all
    variables which can be instantiated from source program and other partial
    evaluation time information (e.g. syntax and semantic analysis) as set s and
    rest as set r. Thus, the result of partial evaluation is alpha(int, s')(r).
- Furthermore, running alpha(int, s') on r' gives the same result as int(s',
    r') i.e.

    alpha(int, s')(r') = int(s', r')

- alpha(int, s') does not contain computation process for syntax and semantic
    analysis for source program s', thus it can be viewed as an object program
    in the semantic metalanguage describing the interpreter.
- Now, partially evaluating alpha itself, we have alpha(alpha, int)(s')(r').
    Furthermore,

    alpha(int, s')(r') = alpha(alpha, int)(s')(r')

- Thus alpha(alpha, int) is a compiler that generates an object program from s'
- Properties of projection
    1. alpha minimizes computation time of process generated by partial
       evaluation (i.e. perform as much partial evaluation as possible).
    2. alpha minimizes computation time of partial evaluation itself (i.e. skip
       partial evaluation on stuff that will never be executed).
- alpha1 partial evaluation variables' criteria:
    1. Partial evaluation variables are (1) partial evaluation variables of
       previous iteration, or (2) variables to which values depending only on
       constants or partial evaluation variables of preceding stage are
       assigned.
    2. Variables other than partial evaluation variables are remaining
       variables.
